docs/en/versions/v1.0/security/supply-chain.md, before:

# Supply-Chain Hardening

0xgen's CI pipelines enforce dependency hygiene, generate a software bill of
materials (SBOM), and sign every published artifact. This page documents the
controls and the steps operators can take to validate them independently.

## Dependency policy {#dependency-policy}

- The `Dependency Review` GitHub Action blocks pull requests that introduce new
  transitive risks with a severity of **high** or **critical**.
- JavaScript-based plugins must commit a `package-lock.json` file. The
  `JS Supply Chain` workflow runs `npm ci --omit=dev` and `npm audit` on every
  push and pull request to detect vulnerable packages.
- Go modules are pinned via `go.mod`/`go.sum` and are checked in the primary CI
  workflow (`ci.yml`).

If you maintain a plugin, run `npm audit --omit=dev --audit-level=high` locally
before submitting patches. CI fails if the audit reports a high or critical
vulnerability.

## SBOM generation {#sbom-generation}

Syft generates SPDX SBOMs for both the repository and the plugin tree on every
push and pull request. The artifacts are uploaded as `glyph-sboms` and contain:

- `glyph-repo.spdx.json` – the top-level Go module and ancillary tooling.
- `glyph-plugins.spdx.json` – dependencies bundled with the official plugins.

Download the SBOMs from the workflow run summary to integrate with your own
inventory or vulnerability scanners.

## Release signing & provenance {#release-signing-and-provenance}

Tagged releases trigger the `Release` workflow, which now performs the
following:

1. Build platform archives with GoReleaser.
2. Sign each archive and checksum file using [Sigstore Cosign] in keyless mode.
3. Upload the resulting `.sig` and `.pem` files alongside the release assets.

The complementary `SLSA Provenance` workflow publishes an in-toto provenance
statement covering the release artifacts, signatures, and checksum manifests.
To verify a release:

```bash
# Download the archive, signature, certificate, checksum, and provenance files
VERSION=v1.2.3
curl -LO https://github.com/RowanDark/0xgen/releases/download/${VERSION}/0xgenctl_${VERSION}_linux_amd64.tar.gz
curl -LO https://github.com/RowanDark/0xgen/releases/download/${VERSION}/0xgenctl_${VERSION}_linux_amd64.tar.gz.sig
curl -LO https://github.com/RowanDark/0xgen/releases/download/${VERSION}/0xgenctl_${VERSION}_linux_amd64.tar.gz.pem
curl -LO https://github.com/RowanDark/0xgen/releases/download/${VERSION}/0xgen_${VERSION}_checksums.txt
curl -LO https://github.com/RowanDark/0xgen/releases/download/${VERSION}/0xgen_${VERSION}_checksums.txt.sig
curl -LO https://github.com/RowanDark/0xgen/releases/download/${VERSION}/0xgen_${VERSION}_checksums.txt.pem
curl -LO https://github.com/RowanDark/0xgen/releases/download/${VERSION}/glyph-${VERSION}-binaries.intoto.jsonl

# Verify the signature matches the downloaded archive
cosign verify-blob \
  --certificate 0xgenctl_${VERSION}_linux_amd64.tar.gz.pem \
  --signature 0xgenctl_${VERSION}_linux_amd64.tar.gz.sig \
  0xgenctl_${VERSION}_linux_amd64.tar.gz

# Validate the SLSA provenance
slsa-verifier verify-artifact \
  --provenance glyph-${VERSION}-binaries.intoto.jsonl \
  --source-uri github.com/RowanDark/0xgen \
  --builder-id \
    https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa-github-generator/.github/workflows/generic-post-build-provenance@v1.10.0 \
  0xgenctl_${VERSION}_linux_amd64.tar.gz
```

Successful verification proves the archive was produced by the trusted release
workflow and signed with Sigstore.

## Plugin signature verification {#plugin-signature-verification}

The `0xgenctl plugin run` command now validates detached signatures before a
plugin is compiled or executed. Each official plugin ships with:

- `<artifact>.sig` – a base64-encoded ECDSA signature generated via `cosign
  sign-blob`.
- `plugins/keys/glyph-plugin.pub` – the public key maintained by the 0xgen team.

Plugin manifests reference these files and CI ensures they stay in sync with the
recorded hashes. To verify manually:

```bash
cosign verify-blob \
  --key plugins/keys/glyph-plugin.pub \
  --signature plugins/excavator/plugin.js.sig \
  plugins/excavator/plugin.js
```

You can rotate the signing key by updating the public key, regenerating the
signatures, and adjusting the manifests. 0xgen refuses to run a plugin when the
signature is missing or invalid.

## Trust chain summary {#trust-chain-summary}

1. Dependency diffs and `npm audit` prevent risky packages from entering the
   tree.
2. Syft SBOMs document the exact dependency graph for reproducibility.
3. Cosign signatures and SLSA provenance cover release binaries and plugin
   artifacts.
4. The plugin loader enforces both hash allowlisting and cryptographic
   signatures before execution.

Combining these controls gives users a transparent path to validate the entire
supply chain from source to runtime.

[Sigstore Cosign]: https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/overview/

Commit message:

Rebrand remaining Glyph references to Oxg

docs/en/versions/v1.0/security/supply-chain.md, after:

# Supply-Chain Hardening

0xgen's CI pipelines enforce dependency hygiene, generate a software bill of
materials (SBOM), and sign every published artifact. This page documents the
controls and the steps operators can take to validate them independently.

## Dependency policy {#dependency-policy}

- The `Dependency Review` GitHub Action blocks pull requests that introduce new
  transitive risks with a severity of **high** or **critical**.
- JavaScript-based plugins must commit a `package-lock.json` file. The
  `JS Supply Chain` workflow runs `npm ci --omit=dev` and `npm audit` on every
  push and pull request to detect vulnerable packages.
- Go modules are pinned via `go.mod`/`go.sum` and are checked in the primary CI
  workflow (`ci.yml`).

If you maintain a plugin, run `npm audit --omit=dev --audit-level=high` locally
before submitting patches. CI fails if the audit reports a high or critical
vulnerability.

## SBOM generation {#sbom-generation}

Syft generates SPDX SBOMs for both the repository and the plugin tree on every
push and pull request. The artifacts are uploaded as `oxg-sboms` and contain:

- `oxg-repo.spdx.json` – the top-level Go module and ancillary tooling.
- `oxg-plugins.spdx.json` – dependencies bundled with the official plugins.

Download the SBOMs from the workflow run summary to integrate with your own
inventory or vulnerability scanners.

## Release signing & provenance {#release-signing-and-provenance}

Tagged releases trigger the `Release` workflow, which now performs the
following:

1. Build platform archives with GoReleaser.
2. Sign each archive and checksum file using [Sigstore Cosign] in keyless mode.
3. Upload the resulting `.sig` and `.pem` files alongside the release assets.

The complementary `SLSA Provenance` workflow publishes an in-toto provenance
statement covering the release artifacts, signatures, and checksum manifests.
To verify a release:

```bash
# Download the archive, signature, certificate, checksum, and provenance files
VERSION=v1.2.3
curl -LO https://github.com/RowanDark/0xgen/releases/download/${VERSION}/0xgenctl_${VERSION}_linux_amd64.tar.gz
curl -LO https://github.com/RowanDark/0xgen/releases/download/${VERSION}/0xgenctl_${VERSION}_linux_amd64.tar.gz.sig
curl -LO https://github.com/RowanDark/0xgen/releases/download/${VERSION}/0xgenctl_${VERSION}_linux_amd64.tar.gz.pem
curl -LO https://github.com/RowanDark/0xgen/releases/download/${VERSION}/0xgen_${VERSION}_checksums.txt
curl -LO https://github.com/RowanDark/0xgen/releases/download/${VERSION}/0xgen_${VERSION}_checksums.txt.sig
curl -LO https://github.com/RowanDark/0xgen/releases/download/${VERSION}/0xgen_${VERSION}_checksums.txt.pem
curl -LO https://github.com/RowanDark/0xgen/releases/download/${VERSION}/oxg-${VERSION}-binaries.intoto.jsonl

# Verify the signature matches the downloaded archive
cosign verify-blob \
  --certificate 0xgenctl_${VERSION}_linux_amd64.tar.gz.pem \
  --signature 0xgenctl_${VERSION}_linux_amd64.tar.gz.sig \
  0xgenctl_${VERSION}_linux_amd64.tar.gz

# Validate the SLSA provenance
slsa-verifier verify-artifact \
  --provenance oxg-${VERSION}-binaries.intoto.jsonl \
  --source-uri github.com/RowanDark/0xgen \
  --builder-id \
    https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa-github-generator/.github/workflows/generic-post-build-provenance@v1.10.0 \
  0xgenctl_${VERSION}_linux_amd64.tar.gz
```

Successful verification proves the archive was produced by the trusted release
workflow and signed with Sigstore.

## Plugin signature verification {#plugin-signature-verification}

The `0xgenctl plugin run` command now validates detached signatures before a
plugin is compiled or executed. Each official plugin ships with:

- `<artifact>.sig` – a base64-encoded ECDSA signature generated via `cosign
  sign-blob`.
- `plugins/keys/oxg-plugin.pub` – the public key maintained by the 0xgen team.

Plugin manifests reference these files and CI ensures they stay in sync with the
recorded hashes. To verify manually:

```bash
cosign verify-blob \
  --key plugins/keys/oxg-plugin.pub \
  --signature plugins/excavator/plugin.js.sig \
  plugins/excavator/plugin.js
```

You can rotate the signing key by updating the public key, regenerating the
signatures, and adjusting the manifests. 0xgen refuses to run a plugin when the
signature is missing or invalid.

## Trust chain summary {#trust-chain-summary}

1. Dependency diffs and `npm audit` prevent risky packages from entering the
   tree.
2. Syft SBOMs document the exact dependency graph for reproducibility.
3. Cosign signatures and SLSA provenance cover release binaries and plugin
   artifacts.
4. The plugin loader enforces both hash allowlisting and cryptographic
   signatures before execution.

Combining these controls gives users a transparent path to validate the entire
supply chain from source to runtime.

[Sigstore Cosign]: https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/overview/
