docs/en/dev-guide/index.md, before:

# Developer Guide

This guide helps contributors set up a development environment, iterate on new
features, and ship releases with confidence.

## Prerequisites {#prerequisites}

Glyph is written in Go with supporting tooling in Node.js and Python. Install the
following before hacking on the repository:

- Go 1.21+
- Node.js 20+ and npm (used by Playwright fixtures)
- Python 3.11+ for auxiliary scripts
- Make, Git, and Docker (optional but required for container builds)

Clone the repository and run `make deps` to download Go modules and Playwright
browsers used by the integration tests.

## Build and test {#build-and-test}

The [`Makefile`]({{ config.repo_url }}/blob/main/Makefile) contains convenience targets for the most common
developer workflows:

```bash
# Compile glyphctl into ./out/
make build

# Run unit and integration tests
make test

# Execute the end-to-end quickstart demo
glyphctl demo
```

You can also build the CLI manually with `go build ./cmd/glyphctl`. Tests that rely on
Playwright or other external services automatically skip themselves when the
prerequisites are missing, keeping `make test` fast on constrained environments.

## Plugin development loop {#plugin-development-loop}

Use `make new-plugin name=<id>` to scaffold a new plugin under `plugins/<id>/`. The
scaffolding includes a manifest, Go stubs, and a sample test harness wired to the
[`sdk/plugin-sdk`]({{ config.repo_url }}/tree/main/sdk/plugin-sdk). Run `go test ./plugins/<id>/...` while you
iterate.

When you are ready to exercise the plugin against a running daemon, build it and then
invoke:

```bash
go build ./plugins/<id>
glyphctl plugin run --path ./plugins/<id>/<id> --duration 30s
```

The CLI connects to `glyphd`, streams findings back to `out/findings.jsonl`, and lets
you debug the plugin in real time.

## Release checklist {#release-checklist}

1. Update [`CHANGELOG.md`]({{ config.repo_url }}/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) with user-facing notes.
2. Run `make test` and `glyphctl demo` to ensure critical paths pass.
3. Execute `scripts/build_release.sh` to produce signed archives and checksums.
4. Follow the prompts in `scripts/update-brew-formula.sh` if the Homebrew tap
   needs a new version. The script keeps the
   [`RowanDark/homebrew-glyph`](https://github.com/RowanDark/homebrew-glyph)
   formula in sync and the `bump-homebrew` workflow opens a pull request with the
   changes.
5. Run `scripts/snapshot_docs.py vX.Y.Z --latest` to archive the documentation
   into `docs/en/versions/` and update the version selector manifest.
6. Push a Git tag (for example `v1.2.3`) to trigger the release workflows and
   publish the freshly versioned documentation.

Refer to [`CONTRIBUTING.md`]({{ config.repo_url }}/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for coding conventions and code
review expectations.

Commit message:

docs: document updater channels and rollback plan

docs/en/dev-guide/index.md, after:

# Developer Guide

This guide helps contributors set up a development environment, iterate on new
features, and ship releases with confidence.

## Prerequisites {#prerequisites}

Glyph is written in Go with supporting tooling in Node.js and Python. Install the
following before hacking on the repository:

- Go 1.21+
- Node.js 20+ and npm (used by Playwright fixtures)
- Python 3.11+ for auxiliary scripts
- Make, Git, and Docker (optional but required for container builds)

Clone the repository and run `make deps` to download Go modules and Playwright
browsers used by the integration tests.

## Build and test {#build-and-test}

The [`Makefile`]({{ config.repo_url }}/blob/main/Makefile) contains convenience targets for the most common
developer workflows:

```bash
# Compile glyphctl into ./out/
make build

# Run unit and integration tests
make test

# Execute the end-to-end quickstart demo
glyphctl demo
```

You can also build the CLI manually with `go build ./cmd/glyphctl`. Tests that rely on
Playwright or other external services automatically skip themselves when the
prerequisites are missing, keeping `make test` fast on constrained environments.

## Plugin development loop {#plugin-development-loop}

Use `make new-plugin name=<id>` to scaffold a new plugin under `plugins/<id>/`. The
scaffolding includes a manifest, Go stubs, and a sample test harness wired to the
[`sdk/plugin-sdk`]({{ config.repo_url }}/tree/main/sdk/plugin-sdk). Run `go test ./plugins/<id>/...` while you
iterate.

When you are ready to exercise the plugin against a running daemon, build it and then
invoke:

```bash
go build ./plugins/<id>
glyphctl plugin run --path ./plugins/<id>/<id> --duration 30s
```

The CLI connects to `glyphd`, streams findings back to `out/findings.jsonl`, and lets
you debug the plugin in real time.

## Release checklist {#release-checklist}

1. Update [`CHANGELOG.md`]({{ config.repo_url }}/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) with user-facing notes.
2. Run `make test` and `glyphctl demo` to ensure critical paths pass.
3. Execute `scripts/build_release.sh` to produce signed archives and checksums.
4. Follow the prompts in `scripts/update-brew-formula.sh` if the Homebrew tap
   needs a new version. The script keeps the
   [`RowanDark/homebrew-glyph`](https://github.com/RowanDark/homebrew-glyph)
   formula in sync and the `bump-homebrew` workflow opens a pull request with the
   changes.
5. Build and sign the update manifests as described in the
   [updater guide](../dev/updater.md), then stage delta packages for macOS,
   Windows, and Linux.
6. Run `scripts/snapshot_docs.py vX.Y.Z --latest` to archive the documentation
   into `docs/en/versions/` and update the version selector manifest.
7. Push a Git tag (for example `v1.2.3`) to trigger the release workflows and
   publish the freshly versioned documentation.

Refer to [`CONTRIBUTING.md`]({{ config.repo_url }}/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for coding conventions and code
review expectations.
